<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.3 Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">

<topic id="introduction">
  <title>Features</title>

  <body>
    <bodydiv>
      <section>
        <title>Performance</title>
        <p>Depending on the size of your document,
          <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> can
          <ph audience="user">magically</ph> decrease your publishing times by
          up to 70%<fn>This figure only holds for relatively small
          documents where the overhead of creating the JVM, loading
          classes, compiling XSLT stylesheets, and so on takes up more time than
          the actual processing. If your document takes 30 minutes to process
          now, it won't take 9&#160;minutes with <keyword
          keyref="plugin.short-name"/>: more like 28&#160;minutes, most likely.</fn>
          after the first run. The difference is more noticeable with small or
          medium documents.</p>

        <p>Here's a graph that shows the development of the publishing
          duration in seconds over 50&#160;runs for the <xref
          keyref="links.dita-ot-user-guide"/> with and without the <keyword
          keyref="plugin.short-name"/><fn>DITA Open Toolkit 2.2 (development version),
          Gradle 2.7, MacBook Pro, 2,5 GHz Intel Core i5, 8 GB 1600 MHz DDR3.</fn>:
        </p>

        <div outputclass="metrics"></div>

        <note><p>You must have <xref
          href="https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html"
          scope="external" format="html">the Gradle Daemon enabled</xref> to get
          the performance benefit.</p></note>

        <p audience="developer">The performance improvement is due to the
        <xref href="https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html"
              format="html"
              scope="external">Gradle Daemon</xref>, which effectively removes
              the <term>JVM</term> warmup time.
        </p>

        <p audience="developer">If you're feeling adventurous and you have a
          multi-project build, you can also try Gradle's
          <option>--parallel</option> option to build your documents in parallel
          and speed builds up even more. However, since DITA-OT isn't fully
          thread-safe, your builds might become unreliable.</p>
      </section>

      <section>
        <title>Easy to configure</title>
        <p>After you've installed Gradle<fn>If you're on OS X or Linux,
          installing Gradle is painless. On Windows, you'll have to set at
          least one environment variable, unfortunately.</fn> and DITA-OT, using
          <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> is simple. There's no need to
          use <filepath>startcmd.bat</filepath> or mess with your classpath:
          just create a <xref keyref="links.buildfile-simple"/>, run Gradle, and
          voilà: your published document should appear in your project's build
          directory (<filepath>build</filepath> by default).
        </p>

        <p>Just like Gradle, <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> works on all
        major platforms.</p>

        <p audience="developer">(The <term>API</term> is pretty nice, too.)</p>
      </section>

      <section>
        <title>Versatile publishing</title>
        <p>With <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/>, you easily publish
          large document sets in one go. If you want to publish every file
          with a <filepath>ditamap</filepath> extension in the
          <filepath>dita</filepath> subdirectory using the PDF transtype, do
          something like this:</p>

        <codeblock outputclass="language-groovy">dita {
    input fileTree(dir: 'dita', include: '*.ditamap')
    transtype 'pdf'
}</codeblock>

        <p>By default, <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> looks for a
        <filepath>properties</filepath> file the has the same basename as your
        input file and that's in the same directory as your input file<fn>For
        example, if your DITA map file is called
        <filepath>my-awesome-document.ditamap</filepath>,
        <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> looks for a file called
        <filepath>my-awesome-document.properties</filepath> in the same
        directory as that file.</fn> and uses any DITA-OT parameters you define
        in it to publish that input file.</p>

        <p>You can combine these two features to publish many DITA map files at
          once and define document-specific properties (such as the location
          of the DITAVAL file).</p>

        <p>If you want to define multiple DITA-OT publishing tasks in the same
           Gradle buildfile (if you want to publish the same document multiple
           times with different parameters, for example) you can use the
           alternative syntax for defining tasks:</p>

        <codeblock outputclass="language-groovy">import com.github.eerohele.DitaOtTask

task web(type: DitaOtTask) {
    input 'root.ditamap'
    transtype 'html5'
    filter 'web.ditaval'
}

task pdf(type: DitaOtTask) {
    input 'root.ditamap'
    transtype 'pdf'
    filter 'print.ditaval'

    properties {
      property name: 'args.rellinks', value: 'all'
    }
}</codeblock>
      </section>

      <section>
        <title>Incremental builds</title>
        <p><keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> checks whether your source files
        have changed<fn>It currently checks whether any of the files under the
        directory where your source file is have changed. If you have files
        outside that directory, <keyword keyref="plugin.short-name"/> can't detect
        changes to those files.</fn> and only runs DITA-OT if they
        have (or if you force it to by passing the
        <option>--rerun-tasks</option> option).</p>
        <p>If you're publishing a large document set, you can set up a
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/eerohele/dita-ot-gradle/tree/master/examples/multi"
            scope="external">
            multi-project build</xref> and speed up the feedback cycle by
            publishing only those documents that have changed.</p>
      </section>

      <section>
        <title>Continuous builds</title>
        <p>You can also use Gradle's <xref
          href="http://gradle.org/feature-spotlight-continuous-build/"
          format="html" scope="external">continuous build feature</xref> option
          to tell DITA-OT to automatically republish your document when it
          changes:</p>

        <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">$ gradle --continuous
...
Waiting for changes to input files of tasks... (ctrl-d to exit)
Change detected, executing build...
...</codeblock>

        <p>This is especially useful when writing a small document or a single
          topic because it lets you see the effects of your changes fairly
          quickly.</p>
      </section>
    </bodydiv>

  </body>

  <related-links scope="external" format="html">
    <link href="https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/overview.html#sec:special_feature_of_gradle">
      <linktext>Gradle: Features</linktext>
    </link>

    <link href="https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/multi_project_builds.html">
      <linktext>Gradle: Multi-project Builds</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
